#HTML - Introduction

So what is HTML?

__HTML is the standard markup language for creating Web pages.__

* HTML stands for Hyper Text Markup Language
* HTML describes the structure of Web pages
* HTML elements are the building blocks of HTML pages
* HTML elements are represented by tags
* HTML tags label pieces of content such as "heading", "paragraph", "table", and so on

##Text Editors

At Burnaby South, you can use __NotePad__ in order to code HTML, CSS or even Javascript. You can access NotePad by creating a new file and clicking the open with NotePad button.

However, NotePad does not automatically color code the syntax for you, so at home or in your personal coding environment other text editors are better:

* [Atom](https://atom.io/)
* [Sublime Text (Used often by programmers in the industry)](http://www.sublimetext.com/)
* [NotePad++](https://notepad-plus-plus.org/)
* [Brackets](http://brackets.io/)

(I usually use Atom for teaching workshops and I heard Sublime Text works very well so I recommend those two)

##Syntax/Tags

As with any other programming language, HTML has a specific syntax. It's similar to if you wanted to learn French or Chinese. 

Every language is written in a different way and they have specific rules to follow.

HTML looks like this:
```html
<h1>This tag describes a heading</h1>
<p>This tag is for paragraphs.</p>
```
The little ```<codes></codes>``` with the < and > characters are opening and closing tags. Tags will also always be lower-case!

You always wrap the opening tag ```<tag>``` and the closing tag ```</tag>``` around the words you want to show on the website.

Now every tag has a different word or different letters in them and is preset to allow the computer to understand what you want it to do, so you __cannot make up your own tags.__

You can __nest__ tags as well:
```html
<p>
  <strong>
    This shows a nested tag that will be a paragraph and will be bolded.
  </strong>
</p>
```

##Organizing Code

Notice that the HTML above had __indents with every introduction of a new tag.__ This is for the programmer's sake and for clarity.

The computer reads everything even if all the code was crunched together, however as a decent and sane programmer, we indent with every new tag that is nested inside another tag.

```html
<h1>
  <em>
    See how this is indented inwards? Try to follow this style in order for maximum clarity in your code. Plus all the tags open up.
  </em>
</h1>
```

Organizing Rules to Follow:
* Indent once (usually using the Tab button) after every introduction of a new tag (eg. <strong> within a <p> tag will be indented inwards once)
* HTML opening and closing tags open up so they will not be on one line and thus, you can put other tags inside.

<br>
__NOT LIKE THIS EXAMPLE__
```html
<h1><em>Tags don't open up, and its harder to see what tags are in your html. Don't do this.</em></h1>
```

##Base HTML Tags & Creating HTML File

Create an HTML file by naming it index.html within your text editor. Keep a folder that holds your entire project.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title></title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <!-- page content here (this is an HTML comment by the way) -->
  </body>
</html>
```

This is the basic structure of any HTML website. Try to replicate the exact same codes and tags into your HTML file. 

###Do __not__ copy and paste! You don't learn from pasting, trust me!

Once you're done...
[]()
